---
layout: default
title: Introduction
nav_order: 1
---

# Introduction

Errant is a fantasy role playing game about playing outcasts from the
fringes of society who go on adventures in a world of danger and
intrigue. To play, youâ€™ll need some stuff to write on, a way to simulate
random numbers (traditionally, dice), and a group of friends.

One of these friends will take on the role of the Guide \[1\], while the
rest take on the role of a Company of Errants. The game is a
conversation between the Guide, the Errants, and the rules. The Guide
describes the world, the Errants describe what they wish to do within
that world, and the Guide describes the outcomes of those actions; the
rules are there to help make judgements about what happens easier.

By playing, you and your friends will create unique stories of adventure
that are sure to shock and delight. No one person is in charge of the
story. We play to find out what the story will be.

## Why Errant?

Errant is similar to many other old-school role playing games, so why
should you play this over any other game? What makes Errant unique?

Errant is rules light, procedure heavy.

What does that mean? It means that the rules you need to play Errant are
minimal and simple to understand. At its core, the basic rule is simply
roll a twenty-sided die and try to get a result that is between two
numbers.

However, Errant has a number of procedures that are designed to help you
navigate different play situations in fair and interesting ways. Want to
know how to run an exciting chase scene, or create a fried cockatrice
restaurant, or sue a demon for emotional negligence? Errant has
procedures that can help you do that!

Procedures are not rules, but neither are they vague, general guidance.
They provide a framework to structure the game, and can be adjusted,
deviated from, ignored, hacked, mangled, stolen, or seasoned to taste.

\[1\] This simplified presentation of Errant's text does not include the
small caps and italicized formatting of the stylized document. Instead,
wherever a game mechanic or procedure is named, its first letter is
capitalized. Related terms are not formatted in any special way in this
edition. A full glossary and index of all these terms can be found at p.
XXX.