---
layout: default
title: Core Rules
nav_order: 2
---

# Core Rules

## Checks

When an Errant attempts to do something of which the result is uncertain
and failure has consequences, they roll a twenty-sided die (D20) and
attempt to roll lower or equal to a relevant Attribute and above a
difficulty value (DV). This is called a Check.

## Attributes

Errants have four attributes, each of which is relevant for different
types of Checks. The ultimate decision of which Attribute is relevant
for the purposes of a specific Check lies with the Guide, though Errants
are free to plead their case.

-   Physique (phys) - used for Checks relating to power, toughness, and
    endurance.
-   Skill (skill) - used for Checks relating to quickness, precision,
    and perception.
-   Mind (mind) - used for Checks relating to knowledge, focus, and
    reason.
-   Presence (pres) - used for Checks relating to charm, confidence, and
    willpower.

## Opposed Checks

If two characters, whether they be Errants or an Errant and a non-player
character (NPC), are competing at the same task, they make an opposed
Check.

Both make a Check and whoever rolls higher while still succeeding at the
Check wins. If both parties fail the Check, the situation gets worse and
more complicated for both of them. If the roll is tied, the Guide may
declare a draw, or ask for another opposed Check.

## Saving Throws

A Saving Throw is a special type of Check that is made reactively to try
to avoid or mitigate a negative effect, whether that be dodging from a
dragon’s breath, avoiding falling into a spike pit, or ducking out of
view of the guard who just rounded the corner.

When an Errant or NPC makes a Saving Throw against an effect caused by
another Errant or NPC the base DV, unless otherwise stated, is the
Renown or Threat of the Errant or NPC who caused the effect. In all
other ways, a Saving Throw functions as a regular Check.

## Setting a Difficulty Value

A DV of 0 is an easy Check, a DV of 4 is a difficult Check, and a DV of
8 is almost impossible for a regular person.

As a baseline, for any Check, start with a DV of 0, then consider the
circumstances, first increasing the DV for any factors that would make
the task more difficult (treacherous environment, character impairment,
ineffective gear, etc.) and reduce it for any factors that would make it
easier (appropriate equipment, relevant training or ability, correct
method, etc.).

Generally, adjust DV in increments of 2 or 4. If a DV would be reduced
below 0, the Check automatically succeeds.

If an Errant is assisting another Errant with a task, the Guide may
reduce the DV of the Check by an appropriate amount. It is up to the
Guide to determine whether assistance from multiple Errants will warrant
further reduction; in the case of a task such as trying to push a great
boulder, each additional pair of hands will make the task easier; but
for an ordeal such as trying to decode an ancient cipher, only the
expertise of the most skilled assistant would be relevant.

## Converting Difficulty Values

For reference, a DV of 0 is equivalent to a Difficulty Class of 10 in
games that use the D20 system. To convert a Difficulty Class to DV,
subtract 10. If converting from games that use it, Advantage is equal to
DV -4 and Disadvantage is DV +4.

If converting from a game that uses an x-in-6 chance skill system (e.g.
a 1-in-6 chance of detecting a secret door), treat a probability of
1-in-6 as being equal to DV 8, 2-in-6 as being DV 6, etc. For x-in-6
Saving Throws (e.g. a 4-in-6 chance of falling into a concealed spike
pit), invert the probabilities: a 5-in-6 is equal to DV 8, while a
1-in-6 is equal to DV 0.

## Position & Impact

Aside from setting the DV of a Check, the Guide can also determine what
the Position and Impact of a Check may be based on the circumstances.
Position and Impact do not change how difficult a Check is; rather, they
set the stakes for the outcomes of a Check.

Position determines the outcome of failure. The default Position is
risky.

-   Shaky - not as bad as it could have been.
-   Risky - about what you expected.
-   Dire - worse than you even imagined.

For example, if an Errant is attempting to infiltrate the manor of the
Peacock King dressed as a servant and they fail a Check. If their
Position was risky, a guard might have seen through their disguise and
sounded the alarm; if their Position was shaky, they might simply be
shooed away from where they are and escorted to the kitchen to clean
dishes under the watchful eye of the head chef; if their Position was
dire, their disguise might not only be seen through, but they would be
recognised and a bounty placed on their head by the Peacock King.

Impact determines the outcome of success. The default Impact is fair.

-   Strong - this went better than expected.
-   Fair - you got what you wanted.
-   Weak - not exactly what you hoped.

For example, if an Errant was attempting to seek an audience with the
Goose King to parlay his influence in removing the bounty on their head
and they succeeded on a Check. If their Impact was fair, the Goose King
may agree to do so, perhaps in exchange for a small favour to be repaid
later; if their Impact was weak, the Goose King may only be able to
lower the price of the bounty rather than removing it completely; if
their Impact was strong, the Goose King may not only use his influence
to remove the bounty on the Errant’s head, but also invite them into a
plot to depose the Peacock King once and for all.

Graphic: A humanoid goose, The Goose King, stands with an intense,
open-mouthed, bulging-eyed look on his face. His body is hunched, but
muscled. A glowing crown floats above his head, and his coif of mail
armor cascades down his shoulders. He is dressed in royal attire, with
gold chains clasping a fur cape, a decorated short-sleeved gambeson,
rings and bracelets up his arms, and curly-toed, knee-high boots. One
hand grips an ornameted sphere--a Globus cruciger topped with a goose
instead of a cross. The other hand pulls at the hilt of a greatsword
with a wavy blade--a flame-bladed zweihander.

An Errant may argue their case for a particular Position or Impact, even
trading Position for Impact. For example, an Errant may not be able to
sneak all the way across a courtyard without being seen by a patrolling
guard, they could attempt to get about halfway through, a Check with a
risky Position but weak Impact.

However, they could attempt to simply stroll by nonchalantly, hoping to
seem like someone who is allowed within the courtyard; if they are
caught, it will be much more difficult to escape, but if they go
unnoticed, they will be able to clear the entire length of the
courtyard. In this case, they are trading a dire Position for fair
Impact. As always, however, final rulings on Position and Impact lay
with the Guide.

## The Die of Fate

Sometimes an Errant finds themselves in a situation completely out of
their control. Left with no other escape, they might jump off a cliff
and, while falling, ask “Is there a river below me?” Or, more mundanely,
they may simply be in a town and inquire “Is there anywhere I could get
some funnel cakes?” In cases such as these where the Guide has no
answer, simply roll the Die Of Fate: roll a D6; the higher the result,
the better the situation is for the Errant.

## Rounding

If a number needs to be divided, always round down, except in cases
where a half die roll is called for (e.g. a D3, being a D6 divided by 2,
or a D5, being a D10 divided by 2) in which case, round up.

## Check Procedure

1.  The Errant describes what they are doing. If the Guide feels that
    the Errant’s described action carries the potential for failure, and
    that failure or success would change the situation the Errant is in,
    they can call for a Check.
2.  The Guide sets the Attribute for a Check.
3.  The Guide sets the DV for the Check, adjusting for circumstantial
    advantages and disadvantages.

-   -   If the DV is reduced below 0, the Check automatically succeeds.

1.  The Guide, based on the situation and the Errant’s approach, may
    adjust the Position and Impact for the Check.
2.  The Errant rolls a D20, attempting to roll above the DV and lower
    than or equal to their Attribute.
3.  The Guide describes the outcome of the Check.